@ifnotplaintext
@node Abstract
@chapter Abstract
@end ifnotplaintext
@ifplaintext
@chapter Abstract
@end ifplaintext

This is the seventh public release of Olena, a generic image
processing library in C++.

@ifplaintext
Please see the files BUILD and INSTALL for information about building
and installing Olena.
@end ifplaintext

Olena is a project developed by the EPITA Research and Development
Laboratory (@url{http://www.lrde.epita.fr}) since 1997.  We did numerous
prototypes and throw-away experiments before settling into the kind of
programming paradigm which is finally here.

This version of Olena is quite young.  In fact most of the operators
have been translated from the sources of Milena, an image processing
library which works only on 2D images (Milena stands for "mini-Olena")
and which is not publicly available.

Therefore this code is still experimental and not very polished.  The
file @file{ISSUES}, in the toplevel directory of the distribution,
contains a list of known issues about Olena.

We haven't written a real documentation yet.  In the @file{doc/}
directory you will find the start of a reference manual which presently
documents only the morphological operators, together with a developer's
guide to the use of Olena from user projects.  In the @file{doc/demo/}
directory lie a few sample programs.  The file @file{doc/demo/tour.cc}
attempts to introduce you to the basics of Olena.  For the rest, we're
afraid you will have to dig the code or e-mail us.

Please direct any question or comments to @email{olena@@lrde.epita.fr},
or @email{olena-bugs@@lrde.epita.fr}.


