@ifnotplaintext
@node Bibliography
@section Bibliography
@end ifnotplaintext
@ifplaintext
@section Bibliography
@end ifplaintext

Further information about Olena, can be found into the following
related papers:

@itemize @bullet
@item
  Thierry Géraud, Yoann Fabre, Dimitri Papadopoulos-Orfanos, and
Jean-François Mangin.  @cite{Vers une réutilisabilité totale des
algorithmes de traitement d'images}.  In the Proceedings of the 17th
Symposium GRETSI on Signal and Image Processing, vol. 2, pages 331-334,
Vannes, France, September 1999.  In French (available in english as
Technical Report 9902: @cite{Towards a Total Reusability of Image
Processing Algorithms}).

@item
  Thierry Géraud, Yoann Fabre, Alexandre Duret-Lutz, Dimitri
  Papadopoulos-Orfanos, and Jean-François Mangin.  @cite{Obtaining
  Genericity for Image Processing and Pattern Recognition Algorithms}.
  In the Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Pattern
  Recognition (ICPR'2000), IEEE Computer Society, vol. 4, pages
  816-819, Barcelona, Spain, September 2000.

@item
  Alexandre Duret-Lutz. @cite{Olena: a Component-Based Platform for Image
  Processing, mixing Generic, Generative and OO Programming}. In the
  Proceedings of the 2nd International Symposium on Generative and
  Component-Based Software Engineering (GCSE 2000), Young Researchers
  Workshop (published in "Net.ObjectDays2000"; ISBN 3-89683-932-2),
  pages 653-659, Erfurt, Germany, October 2000.

@item
  Alexandre Duret-Lutz, Thierry Géraud, and Akim Demaille. @cite{Generic
  Design Patterns in C++}. In the Proceedings of the 6th USENIX
  Conference on Object-Oriented Technologies and Systems (COOTS'2001),
  pages 189-202, San Antonio, Texas, USA, January-February 2001.

@item
  Thierry Géraud, Yoann Fabre, and Alexandre Duret-Lutz. @cite{Applying
  Generic Programming to Image Processing}. In the Proceedings of the
  IASTED International Conference on Applied Informatics (AI'2001) --
  Symposium Advances in Computer Applications, ACTA Press, pages
  577-581, Innsbruck, Austria, February 2001.

@item
  @cite{Generic Implementation of Morphological Image Operators},
  Jérôme Darbon, Thierry Géraud, and Alexandre Duret-Lutz,
  submitted to International Symposium On Mathematical Morphology VI
  (ISMM 2002), April 3-5, 2002, Sydney, Australia.
@end itemize

You can download these papers and related materials from
@url{http://www.lrde.epita.fr/cgi-bin/twiki/view/Publications}

