@node Olena headers
@subsection Olena headers: @file{oln/oln/}

@cindex @file{oln/}

This directory contains the Olena library strictly speaking, that is,
the C++ header files.

@table @file
@item oln/config/
@cindex @file{system.hh}
@cindex @file{pconf.hh}
@cindex @file{math.hh}
Olena global configuration definitions, reachable by including
@file{oln/config/system.hh}. This directory also provides replacements
for missing math functions in @file{math.hh}.

@item oln/meta/
C++ meta-programming utilities. Here is a non-exhaustive list of components:
@itemize @minus
@item
@cindex @file{array*.hh}
static arrays (@file{array*.hh});
@item
@cindex @file{cmp.hh}
@cindex @file{ucmp.hh}
static comparisons (@file{cmp.hh} and @file{ucmp.hh});
@item
@cindex @file{control.hh}
static control structures (@file{control.hh});
@item
@cindex @file{logic.hh}
static logical operators (@file{logic.hh});
@item
@cindex @file{ufuncs.hh}
static miscellaneous intefer functions (@file{ufuncs.hh});
@item
@cindex @file{types.hh}
pervasives controlling static hierarchies (@file{types.hh}).
@end itemize

@item oln/types/
Definitions for value types.

@item oln/core/
Definitions for image types and various other Olena data types. This directory
contains definitions for:
@itemize @minus
@item
image types;
@item
structural element types (windows, neighborhoods);
@item
iterators;
@item
points;
@item
borders.
@end itemize

@item oln/transforms/
Transformation operators  over images.  Includes Fast Fourier Transforms
(FFT) and Discreet Wavelets Transforms (DWT).

@item oln/morpho/
Morphological operators.

@item oln/level/
Level processing operators.

@item oln/convol/
Convolution operators.

@item oln/arith/
Arithmetical operators (over images). Covers both arithmetical, conversion and
logical operators.

@item oln/convert/
Value types conversion functions.

@item oln/io/
Input/Output operators for several Olena data types.

@item oln/utils/
Utility operators.

@item oln/math/
Utility mathematical functions.

@end table

In addition to these categories, four multi-purpose headers are provided in
@file{oln/}:

@table @file
@cindex @file{basics.hh}
@item basics.hh
Recursively includes all @emph{base types} definitions from @file{oln/core/}.

@cindex @file{basics1d.hh}
@item basics1d.hh
Recursively includes all definitions from @file{oln/core/} that allow handling of
1D images.

@cindex @file{basics2d.hh}
@item basics2d.hh
Likewise, for 2D images.

@cindex @file{basics3d.hh}
@item basics3d.hh
Likewise, for 3D images.
@end table
