@documentencoding ISO-8859-1

@node Aknowledgements
@section Aknowledgements

The following people contributed to Olena, maybe indirectly through
one of the numerous prototypes Olena has uprisen from. Olena would not
be what it is today without their work.

@table @sc
@item Thierry G@'eraud
@itemize @minus
@item for managing the project in the first place,
@item for his work on the type system,
@item for his numerous hours spent thinking about Olena.
@end itemize

@item Alexandre Duret-Lutz
@itemize @minus
@item for having maintained the source tree for several years,
@item for his work on the type system,
@item for his work on the test system,
@item for his work on the documentation system,
@item for his numerous hours spent on Olena to make it better.
@end itemize

@item Reda Dehak
@itemize @minus
@item for managing the project,
@item for his work on the color conversions,
@item for his contributions to cleanup the sources.
@end itemize

@item Akim Demaille
@itemize @minus
@item for his help with the configuration system,
@item for his help to keep things clean.
@end itemize

@item Anthony Pinagot
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on Olena I/O,
@item for his work on statistical operators,
@item for his study on the FFT.
@end itemize

@item Astrid Wang
for her work on static arrays.

@item David Lesage
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on the type system,
@item for his work on the new paradigm,
@item for his contributions to cleanup the sources.
@end itemize

@item Dimitri Papadopoulos-Orfanos
for his work on the type system

@item Emmanuel Turquin
@itemize @minus
@item for implementing transforms,
@item for his work on integre.
@end itemize

@item Giovanni Palma
@item for his contributions to cleanup the sources.

@item Heru Xue
for his work on the color system.

@item Ignacy Gawedzki
for his work on the color system.

@item Jean Chalard
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on colors,
@item for implementing vectors and matrices,
@item for implementing Olena iterators,
@item for his study of wavelets.
@end itemize

@item Jean-S@'ebastien Mouret
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on image I/O,
@item for his work on the source tree and configuration system,
@item for his work on fast morphological operators.
@end itemize

@item J@'er@^ome Darbon
for his work on image morphology and Olena morpho.

@item Ludovic Perrine
for his study of fuzzy types.

@item Micha@"el Strauss
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on image morphology,
@item for his work on the watershed algorithms,
@item for his work on Olena I/O.
@end itemize

@item Nicolas Burrus
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on integre,
@item for his work on Olena I/O,
@item for his work on the source tree.
@end itemize

@item Pierre-Yves Strub
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on Olena morpho,
@item for his work on the source tree and configuration system,
@item for his work on the type system.
@end itemize

@item Qu@^oc Peyrot
for his work on the watershed algorithm.

@item Rapha@"el Poss
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on the source tree and configuration system,
@item for his work on the documentation.
@end itemize

@item R@'emi Coupet
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on Olena morpho,
@item for his work on data types (pre-0.6),
@item for his work on the Olena core,
@item for his bibliographic research.
@end itemize

@item Renaud Fran@,cois
for his bibliographic research.

@item Sylvain Berlemont
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on combinatorial maps,
@item for his contributions to cleanup the sources.
@end itemize

@item Yann R@'egis-Gianas
@itemize @minus
@item for his work on the type system,
@item for his work on graphs,
@item for his numerous contributions to various parts of Olena.
@end itemize

@item Yoann Fabre
for his work on the type system.

@item Vincent Berruchon

@end table

@sp 2

In addition, we would like to thank EPITA and its user groups EpX and
Prologin for giving us access to Solaris, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD and
CygWin machines.
